docs/hvm4/collapser.md, before:

# Collapser (CNF Readback)

Interaction Calculus is affine and uses explicit duplication (DUP) and
superposition (SUP). That is great for optimal sharing but hard for humans to
read. The collapser is the readback procedure: it turns one IC term into a
stream of ordinary lambda terms, i.e., collapsed normal form (CNF).

Two insights make this possible:
- Quoting removes DUPs. When a branch is ready to print, we run `cnf(term)`.
  Linked vars become quoted vars (BJV/BJ0/BJ1).
  DUP interactions are defined on quoted dup vars, so DUP nodes are cloned away
  and disappear from the printed term.
- Lifting removes SUPs. We lift the first SUP to the top and enumerate its
  branches. Same-label SUPs annihilate pairwise; different-label SUPs commute and
  create a cross product of branches.

## Algorithm (as implemented)

- `cnf` (clang/cnf/_.c): reduce to WNF, then lift the first SUP to the top and
  return immediately. ERA propagates upward; RED keeps only its RHS; INC is left
  in place for the flattener.
- `eval_collapse` (clang/eval/collapse.c): breadth-first traversal with a
  work-stealing key queue. Lower numeric keys are popped first; SUP increases
  key, INC decreases key. Single-threaded runs pop FIFO within each key bucket
  for deterministic ordering. When a branch has no SUP, it prints `cnf(term)`.

## Label Behavior (pairwise vs cross product)

Different labels commute (cross product):

```
[&A{1,2}, &B{3,4}]
```

```
[1,3]
[1,4]
[2,3]
[2,4]
```

Same labels annihilate pairwise:

```
[&A{1,2}, &A{3,4}]
```

```
[1,2]
[3,4]
```

## Where To Look

- `clang/cnf/_.c`: SUP lifting rules.
- `clang/eval/collapse.c`: branch enumeration + SNF quoting for output.
- `clang/data/wspq.c`: work-stealing key queue used by collapse (FIFO when T=1).

Commit message:

cnf: add pooled depth parallelism and integrate with collapser
Introduce a CNF task pool built on wsq deques so cnf() can spawn subterm work for multi-arity nodes, bounded by CNF_POOL_SPAWN_DEPTH, while keeping the root interface unchanged.

Wire the pool into eval_collapse: store CnfPool in EvalCollapseCtx, initialize/clear it per run, allow workers to execute pending CNF tasks while idle, and only terminate when both collapse work and CNF pending counts are drained.

Revert the shared-heap allocator experiment back to per-thread bank slicing/alloc so evaluation semantics and heap layout remain unchanged.

Update collapser docs to mention the CNF pool participation during collapse traversal.

Tests: ./test/_all_.sh

docs/hvm4/collapser.md, after:

# Collapser (CNF Readback)

Interaction Calculus is affine and uses explicit duplication (DUP) and
superposition (SUP). That is great for optimal sharing but hard for humans to
read. The collapser is the readback procedure: it turns one IC term into a
stream of ordinary lambda terms, i.e., collapsed normal form (CNF).

Two insights make this possible:
- Quoting removes DUPs. When a branch is ready to print, we run `cnf(term)`.
  Linked vars become quoted vars (BJV/BJ0/BJ1).
  DUP interactions are defined on quoted dup vars, so DUP nodes are cloned away
  and disappear from the printed term.
- Lifting removes SUPs. We lift the first SUP to the top and enumerate its
  branches. Same-label SUPs annihilate pairwise; different-label SUPs commute and
  create a cross product of branches.

## Algorithm (as implemented)

- `cnf` (clang/cnf/_.c): reduce to WNF, then lift the first SUP to the top and
  return immediately. ERA propagates upward; RED keeps only its RHS; INC is left
  in place for the flattener. When collapse threads are idle, cnf can spawn
  subterm tasks to use the same worker pool.
- `eval_collapse` (clang/eval/collapse.c): breadth-first traversal with a
  work-stealing key queue. Lower numeric keys are popped first; SUP increases
  key, INC decreases key. Single-threaded runs pop FIFO within each key bucket
  for deterministic ordering. When a branch has no SUP, it prints `cnf(term)`.

## Label Behavior (pairwise vs cross product)

Different labels commute (cross product):

```
[&A{1,2}, &B{3,4}]
```

```
[1,3]
[1,4]
[2,3]
[2,4]
```

Same labels annihilate pairwise:

```
[&A{1,2}, &A{3,4}]
```

```
[1,2]
[3,4]
```

## Where To Look

- `clang/cnf/_.c`: SUP lifting rules.
- `clang/eval/collapse.c`: branch enumeration + SNF quoting for output.
- `clang/data/wspq.c`: work-stealing key queue used by collapse (FIFO when T=1).
