docs/hvm4/memory.md, before:

# HVM4 Memory Layout

HVM4 represents every term as a 64-bit word. The same layout is used for dynamic
terms (mutable heap entries) and static terms (immutable book entries).

## Term Pointer Layout (64-bit)

```
SUB (1 bit) | TAG (7 bits) | EXT (24 bits) | VAL (32 bits)
```

- `SUB`: marks a substitution cell; ignored for immediates.
- `TAG`: constructor variant (APP, LAM, SUP, etc.).
- `EXT`: metadata (dup label, ctor/ref name, level, op code, flags).
- `VAL`: payload (heap loc, immediate, or 0).

## Term Memory Table

TERM                    | TAG    | EXT              | VAL                          | NOTES
----------------------- | ------ | ---------------- | ---------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------
application             | APP    | 0                | node: [func, arg]            | dynamic or static
linked variable         | VAR    | 0                | lam body or subst            | dynamic only; follows SUB cells
linked duplicate 0      | DP0    | label            | dup expr or subst            | dynamic only; twin of DP1
linked duplicate 1      | DP1    | label            | dup expr or subst            | dynamic only; twin of DP0
linked lambda           | LAM    | level+flags      | node: [body]                 | dynamic only; binder for VAR
quoted lam              | LAM    | level+flags      | node: [body]                 | quoted; level stored in EXT
superposition           | SUP    | label            | node: [tm0, tm1]             | dynamic or static
linked duplication term | DUP    | label            | node: [expr, body]           | dynamic or static; binder for DP0/DP1
quoted duplication term | DUP    | label            | node: [expr, body]           | expr typically `&L{BJ0,BJ1}` in quoted mode
number literal          | NUM    | 0                | unboxed u32                  | 
constructor arity 0     | C00    | ctor name        | 0                            | tag encodes arity
constructor arity N     | C01-16 | ctor name        | node: [field0..fieldN-1]     | N = tag - C00
pattern match           | MAT    | ctor name        | node: [hit, miss]            | match on constructor
number switch           | SWI    | number literal   | node: [zero, succ]           | parser/printer distinction from MAT
use (unbox)             | USE    | 0                | node: [fun]                  | forces argument, then applies
binary op               | OP2    | op code          | node: [lhs, rhs]             | EXT stores OP_ADD, OP_MUL, etc.
equality                | EQL    | 0                | node: [lhs, rhs]             | structural equality
logical AND             | AND    | 0                | node: [lhs, rhs]             | short-circuit AND
logical OR              | OR     | 0                | node: [lhs, rhs]             | short-circuit OR
priority wrapper        | INC    | 0                | node: [term]                 | collapse priority wrapper
name literal            | NAM    | name id          | 0                            | literal ^name
stuck application       | DRY    | 0                | node: [fun, arg]             | literal ^(f x)
reference               | REF    | name id          | 0                            | book reference @name
primitive               | PRI    | name id          | node: [arg0..argN-1]         | native function call; arity from prim table
allocation              | ALO    | bind list length | direct or packed pair        | len=0: VAL=book term; len>0: VAL->(low32=book term, high32=bind list head)
unscoped binding        | UNS    | 0                | node: [body]                 | helper to construct unscoped lams
wildcard                | ANY    | 0                | 0                            | duplicates itself, equals anything
quoted lam var          | BJV    | 0                | de Bruijn level              | quoted lam-bound var
quoted dup var 0        | BJ0    | label            | de Bruijn level              | quoted dup-bound var
quoted dup var 1        | BJ1    | label            | de Bruijn level              | quoted dup-bound var
dynamic superposition   | DSU    | 0                | node: [lab, tm0, tm1]        | label computed dynamically
dynamic duplication     | DDU    | 0                | node: [lab, val, body]       | label computed dynamically

## Substitution Cells (SUB Bit)

When a linked binder interacts (APP-LAM, DUP-*), its body or expr slot is
replaced by a substitution term with the SUB bit set. Any VAR/DP0/DP1 that
points to that heap location must read the substitution instead of the original
binder. This is how linked variables resolve their binders without extra maps.

## DUP Nodes vs DUP Terms

A DUP term is the syntactic binder `[expr, body]` with tag `DUP`. A DUP node is
the shared expr slot that DP0/DP1 point to; it has no body and no parent, and it
is substituted when a duplication interaction occurs.

## Linked vs Quoted Binders

Linked binders are dynamic lams/dups whose vars point to heap locations. Linked
LAM uses `EXT = level | flags` and its VARs point to the body slot. Linked DUP
uses DP0/DP1 vars that point to the shared expr slot.

Quoted binders are terms encoded with de Bruijn levels in `EXT` (and for BJ0/BJ1,
the dup label). Their variables are BJV/BJ0/BJ1 indices, so there are no heap
links and no interaction with APP-LAM or DUP-SUP.

During collapse, linked LAM/DUP binders are converted into quoted LAM/DUP
binders, and free VAR/DP0/DP1 become BJV/BJ0/BJ1 at the current level. This is
used to turn interaction nets into full lambda terms.

## Dynamic vs Static Terms

Dynamic terms live on the heap and are mutable: binders can be replaced
by substitutions, and DUP nodes evolve as duplication is forced. Static terms
live in the book and are immutable; they store de Bruijn levels and are never
updated in place.

Allocation (ALO) terms bridge the two: they reference a static book term and a
bind list, lazily expanding one layer into a dynamic term when forced. This
keeps static definitions compact while still allowing dynamic sharing during
execution.

ALO has two runtime encodings:

- `len == 0` (no substitutions): `ALO.val` stores the book-term location
  directly, with no extra heap allocation for the pair.
- `len > 0`: `ALO.val` points to one heap word packing
  `low32 = book term location` and `high32 = bind-list head`.

## LAM Ext Flags

- `LAM_ERA_MASK` (0x800000): binder is unused in lambda body (erasing lambda).

Commit message:

Store bind list terms directly as part of the bind lists
Previously, the bind list of ALO terms stored a loc to the term being bound (lam body, dup value) and a loc the next bind list node. However, the bound term was always allocated together with the bind list entry, so there was no need for this extra indirection. This commit removes it.
Each bind list node is now 2 slots: the first is the bound term and the second is the location to the next node. The next location is wrapped in a NUM so that heap_read doesn't loop at the end of the list.

docs/hvm4/memory.md, after:

# HVM4 Memory Layout

HVM4 represents every term as a 64-bit word. The same layout is used for dynamic
terms (mutable heap entries) and static terms (immutable book entries).

## Term Pointer Layout (64-bit)

```
SUB (1 bit) | TAG (7 bits) | EXT (24 bits) | VAL (32 bits)
```

- `SUB`: marks a substitution cell; ignored for immediates.
- `TAG`: constructor variant (APP, LAM, SUP, etc.).
- `EXT`: metadata (dup label, ctor/ref name, level, op code, flags).
- `VAL`: payload (heap loc, immediate, or 0).

## Term Memory Table

TERM                    | TAG    | EXT              | VAL                          | NOTES
----------------------- | ------ | ---------------- | ---------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------
application             | APP    | 0                | node: [func, arg]            | dynamic or static
linked variable         | VAR    | 0                | lam body or subst            | dynamic only; follows SUB cells
linked duplicate 0      | DP0    | label            | dup expr or subst            | dynamic only; twin of DP1
linked duplicate 1      | DP1    | label            | dup expr or subst            | dynamic only; twin of DP0
linked lambda           | LAM    | level+flags      | node: [body]                 | dynamic only; binder for VAR
quoted lam              | LAM    | level+flags      | node: [body]                 | quoted; level stored in EXT
superposition           | SUP    | label            | node: [tm0, tm1]             | dynamic or static
linked duplication term | DUP    | label            | node: [expr, body]           | dynamic or static; binder for DP0/DP1
quoted duplication term | DUP    | label            | node: [expr, body]           | expr typically `&L{BJ0,BJ1}` in quoted mode
number literal          | NUM    | 0                | unboxed u32                  | 
constructor arity 0     | C00    | ctor name        | 0                            | tag encodes arity
constructor arity N     | C01-16 | ctor name        | node: [field0..fieldN-1]     | N = tag - C00
pattern match           | MAT    | ctor name        | node: [hit, miss]            | match on constructor
number switch           | SWI    | number literal   | node: [zero, succ]           | parser/printer distinction from MAT
use (unbox)             | USE    | 0                | node: [fun]                  | forces argument, then applies
binary op               | OP2    | op code          | node: [lhs, rhs]             | EXT stores OP_ADD, OP_MUL, etc.
equality                | EQL    | 0                | node: [lhs, rhs]             | structural equality
logical AND             | AND    | 0                | node: [lhs, rhs]             | short-circuit AND
logical OR              | OR     | 0                | node: [lhs, rhs]             | short-circuit OR
priority wrapper        | INC    | 0                | node: [term]                 | collapse priority wrapper
name literal            | NAM    | name id          | 0                            | literal ^name
stuck application       | DRY    | 0                | node: [fun, arg]             | literal ^(f x)
reference               | REF    | name id          | 0                            | book reference @name
primitive               | PRI    | name id          | node: [arg0..argN-1]         | native function call; arity from prim table
allocation              | ALO    | bind list length | direct or packed pair        | len=0: VAL=book term; len>0: VAL->(low32=book term, high32=bind list head)
unscoped binding        | UNS    | 0                | node: [body]                 | helper to construct unscoped lams
wildcard                | ANY    | 0                | 0                            | duplicates itself, equals anything
quoted lam var          | BJV    | 0                | de Bruijn level              | quoted lam-bound var
quoted dup var 0        | BJ0    | label            | de Bruijn level              | quoted dup-bound var
quoted dup var 1        | BJ1    | label            | de Bruijn level              | quoted dup-bound var
dynamic superposition   | DSU    | 0                | node: [lab, tm0, tm1]        | label computed dynamically
dynamic duplication     | DDU    | 0                | node: [lab, val, body]       | label computed dynamically

## Substitution Cells (SUB Bit)

When a linked binder interacts (APP-LAM, DUP-*), its body or expr slot is
replaced by a substitution term with the SUB bit set. Any VAR/DP0/DP1 that
points to that heap location must read the substitution instead of the original
binder. This is how linked variables resolve their binders without extra maps.

## DUP Nodes vs DUP Terms

A DUP term is the syntactic binder `[expr, body]` with tag `DUP`. A DUP node is
the shared expr slot that DP0/DP1 point to; it has no body and no parent, and it
is substituted when a duplication interaction occurs.

## Linked vs Quoted Binders

Linked binders are dynamic lams/dups whose vars point to heap locations. Linked
LAM uses `EXT = level | flags` and its VARs point to the body slot. Linked DUP
uses DP0/DP1 vars that point to the shared expr slot.

Quoted binders are terms encoded with de Bruijn levels in `EXT` (and for BJ0/BJ1,
the dup label). Their variables are BJV/BJ0/BJ1 indices, so there are no heap
links and no interaction with APP-LAM or DUP-SUP.

During collapse, linked LAM/DUP binders are converted into quoted LAM/DUP
binders, and free VAR/DP0/DP1 become BJV/BJ0/BJ1 at the current level. This is
used to turn interaction nets into full lambda terms.

## Dynamic vs Static Terms

Dynamic terms live on the heap and are mutable: binders can be replaced
by substitutions, and DUP nodes evolve as duplication is forced. Static terms
live in the book and are immutable; they store de Bruijn levels and are never
updated in place.

Allocation (ALO) terms bridge the two: they reference a static book term and a
bind list, lazily expanding one layer into a dynamic term when forced. This
keeps static definitions compact while still allowing dynamic sharing during
execution.

ALO has two runtime encodings:

- `len == 0` (no substitutions): `ALO.val` stores the book-term location
  directly, with no extra heap allocation for the pair.
- `len > 0`: `ALO.val` points to one heap word packing
  `low32 = book term location` and `high32 = bind-list head`.

### ALO Bind-List Nodes

For `len > 0`, the bind list is a linked list of 2-slot nodes:

- `node[0]`: bound term cell (the substitution target term lives here).
- `node[1]`: `NUM(next_node_loc)`; `0` means end of list.

This means the pointer used by variables/copiers is the bind-node location
itself (slot `0`), not a separate allocation.

- In `ALO-LAM`, `node[0]` is the lambda body slot.
- In `ALO-DUP`, `node[0]` is the shared DUP expr slot.

## LAM Ext Flags

- `LAM_ERA_MASK` (0x800000): binder is unused in lambda body (erasing lambda).
